cma-native-custom-script (#5088)
centreon/centreon-documentation: cloud/cma/cma-custom.md

**Centreon Monitoring Agent** can execute custom plugins. Use this feature if your monitoring needs are specific and not covered by native Centreon controls and plugins. Supported languages are: PowerShell, Perl, Python, Bash.

To get started, create your plugin: for example, you can use [our developer guide](/pp/integrations/plugin-packs/dev-resources/introduction).

> Custom plugins execution requires to declare associated commands in a dedicated file, on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executing custom plugins requires declaring their commands in a dedicated file on the host.
```

The declaration of custom plugins (commands) is done in a dedicated file, on the host.

Supported formats: .txt or .ini

Example content:

```bash
[custom_checks]
check_echo = /usr/bin/echo "$ARG1$ $ARG2$"
custom_check_2 = /path/to/custom_check_2 -c /arg=$ARG1$
...
```

3. Declare the file

The path to the file must be declared in the agent configuration, via the **custom_check_file** parameter.

* Linux : centagent.json

```json
{
  ...
  "custom_check_file":"/path/to/commandsfile.ini",
  ...
}
```

* Windows: via the installer/silent mode (**/CUSTOMCHECK**) or directly in the registry (by adding a **custom_check_file** registry key).

## Actions in Centreon

On your central server, if not already done, [create the host](../monitoring/basic-objects/hosts.md) corresponding to the resource to be monitored.

Create a service based on the proposed service template or create a dedicated service template.
In that case, the template must inherit (directly or via its parent) from the **OS-Linux-Custom-Script-Centreon-Monitoring-Agent** or **OS-Windows-Custom-Script-Centreon-Monitoring-Agent** templates, and be configured with passive checks enabled and active checks disabled.

> 3. Fill in the macros

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Fill in the macros:
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Custom plugins execution requires to declare associated commands in a dedicated file, on the host.
These commands will be used as macro values in the corresponding service.
```

## Actions on the host

1. Copy the plugin to the host, in the directory of your choice.
2. Create the commands file

> The declaration of custom plugins (commands) is done in a dedicated file, on the host.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Supported formats: .txt or .ini

Example content:

```bash
[custom_checks]
check_echo = /usr/bin/echo "$ARG1$ $ARG2$"
custom_check_2 = /path/to/custom_check_2 -c /arg=$ARG1$
...
```

3. Declare the file

The path to the file must be declared in the agent configuration, via the **custom_check_file** parameter.

* Linux : centagent.json

```json
{
  ...
  "custom_check_file":"/path/to/commandsfile.ini",
  ...
}
```

> * Windows: via the installer/silent mode (/CUSTOMCHECK) or directly in the registry (custom_check_file).

Author: ```suggestion
* Windows: via the installer/silent mode (**/CUSTOMCHECK**) or directly in the registry (by adding a **custom_check_file** registry key).
```
